[Music]
hi there as you know there are creatures
that have a spine chilling effect on
almost everyone lethal and powerful able
to adapt to different climates and
conditions they've lived on earth for
millions of years and nowadays you can
still find them on almost every
continent no it's not housecats
well maybe in your neck of the woods no
I'm actually talking about snakes those
amazing legless and terrifying beasts
that many centuries ago used to be so
huge they could have hunted and eaten
dinosaurs hey I'd watch that just 6
million years after the infamous
Tyrannosaurus Rex roamed the planet
another terrifying predator took its
place able to put most horror movie
directors to shame it was a horrifying
giant snake meat titanoboa the biggest
serpent that has ever lived on earth it
thrived in South American jungles after
the extinction of dinosaurs about 65
million years ago but hey who's counting
and it wasn't South America back then
was it so do you remember anaconda no
not that music video I'm talking about
the movie anaconda and the snake that
was about to snack on Jennifer Lopez
well how about this the titanoboa was
even larger than that monster according
to the researchers who discovered the
fossilized remains of the prehistoric
snake in northern Colombia the bones in
its skeleton were as wide as a man's
hand for comparison a modern anacondas
vertebra is just a bit more than 1 inch
in width the biggest representatives of
titanoboa grew up to 40 feet long which
is almost as long as a semi-trailer and
weighed more than a time on top of that
at its thickest point titanoboa
could be up to three feet and wide which
means it would reach the waistline of an
adult when the researchers examine the
site where the fossilized remains were
found they discovered not one but eight
prehistoric monster snakes there they
also managed to figure out what was
the dinner menu for these creatures
after finding the remains of modern
crocodiles ancestors and a giant turtle
that was more than six feet in length at
the same site yep it turns out that the
huge snakes were not only perfectly
capable of eating fleshy animals but
they could also digest shells and bones
the only problem was that this process
took significantly longer than usual hey
you just ate a turtle in a hurry or
something unfortunately it was extremely
difficult for scientists to find the
titanoboa skull the problem is that
unlike jaws which are extremely powerful
thanks to their muscles snakes bones are
pretty fragile
that's why they usually crumble long
before the sediment can appear over them
however the researchers managed to find
the remains of 28 gigantic serpents
including three skull fragments thanks
to this discovery they've made a
full-scale replica of the snake's head
which supported the theory that it used
to be one of the largest predators of
its time oh boy in fact had they lived
at the same time the titanoboa
could have come out as the winner in a
fight with the t-rex the Dino which was
one of the most feared predators of its
time was equipped with bone crushing
jaws powerful legs and a tail that was
used to thrash its prey and enemies
besides this critter had a bite force
equal to that of not one but two great
white sharks on the other hand
butwait snakes have no hands the tenth
Inagua
had unsurpassed constriction skills when
the giant snake squeezed its prey the
pressure could reach 400 pounds per
square inch in other words the snakes
enemies felt as if three Eiffel Towers
were squishing them that's why if the
snake managed to wrap around the t-rex
it would have easily succeeded in
bringing the Dino down Oh
however the snake appeared after the
dinosaurs had been wiped off the surface
of the planet that's why its main food
was smaller snakes mammals and birds
turtles crocodiles and lungfish no
burgers no fries well although the
titanoboa sounds like a fascinating
creature I
glad it doesn't exist nowadays but what
about the longest and most powerful
snakes of the modern world are they
really much smaller than the titan a boy
used to be first of all all of the
biggest snakes nowadays belong to the
Python anaconda and boa constrictor
families now before you relax too much
about that instead of subdue their prey
with venom constrictors squeeze it in a
death grip to consume later kind of like
take out some of the longest snakes
nowadays our pythons see for yourself
the biggest reticulated python can grow
up to 29 feet which is almost as long as
a London bus
hey let's measure you hold the tape
green anacondas which live in South
America don't lag behind females are
longer than males and can grow up to 23
feet which is three and a half times as
long as your bed well just think about
that one tonight he's coiled up three
and a half times under your bed
oops I'm sorry anyway the green anaconda
is the world's heaviest snake at 550
pounds it weighs 3 times as much as a
kangaroo now you've probably heard that
these creepy creatures can munch on
animals that are much bigger than the
snake itself pigs antelopes beer rodents
and other small mammals are regular
dishes on a large snakes menu but how do
they carry out the impressive feat of
swallowing their prey whole well let's
find out the answer lies in the curious
construction of the snake's jaws when
you look at how impossibly why the
reptile opens its mouth you would assume
that either it's about to dislocate its
jaws or that the jaws are actually
detachable both of these theories are
nothing but widespread myths a third
theory that the snakes been watching
Game of Thrones and got really really
bored and so starts to yawn has been
discounted
nobody gets bored with Game of Thrones
back to the jaws thing you can open your
mouth thanks to special joints situated
between your skull and your jaw you may
feel them if you touch the spots below
your ears and open and close your mouth
a couple of times
but snakes have an extra bone on each
side between their skull and jaw
it's these bones that allow them to open
their mouths much wider than we humans
can but wait that's not all snakes lower
jaws are actually attached to their
upper ones with stretchy ligaments this
means that the jaws right and left sides
can move independently of each other and
finally the snake's skin as well as the
body itself can stretch to unbelievable
sizes it's always confused me how snakes
don't suffocate while they're swallowing
their prey but when I found the answer
it was even more shocking than I
imagined when they're eating snakes push
the glottis a breathing tube that leads
to their lungs out the side of their
mouths as a result they can breathe and
eat at the same time well that's handy
interestingly some snakes namely the
common king snake managed to dine on
other snakes that seriously exceed their
own size the thing is that reptiles who
are capable of this trick are much
stronger than the others as a result
their constriction is three times more
powerful than is needed to stop the
blood flow of their prey but that's just
one side of the job let's say a smaller
snake has subdued it's much longer prey
but now it has to fit it in its belly
somehow and that's a real exhausting
process they tell me the smaller snake
opens its mouth and starts to walk it
over the prey by using its jaws and
sharp backward curved teeth on top of
that the snake compresses its body so
that it moves in a set of waves that
makes the snake longer and shorter just
like an accordion with all that work
done the longer snake gets safely packed
inside the smaller one and then the
latter just needs to wait for about 15
days to digest its prey well I think I'm
about as creeped out as I can take for
now so do you know any other staggering
facts about snakes if so share them with
me in the comment section below
yeah remember to hit the like button
show this video to your friends and
subscribe to the channel to move to the
bright side of life